- [Tim] Alright, so, at this point
we're actually done, well, that's what
I said in the last video.
No, we're not done, and in fact,
our application won't work at the moment.
Now, remember that the
way it's currently written
it assumes that the
locations are all available
in memory, so it actually loads
all the locations in memory.
But, of course, that's now no longer true.
What we need to do is now, when a player
moves to a location, we have to load that
location from the random access file
that we've created.
So, to achieve that, what we need firstly
is a getLocation method,
in the locations class,
and we also have to close the file
when the player quits.
So, we'll need to add a
close method, as well.
So, let's start off by
adding the close method,
mainly because it's easy.
So, we're gonna go back to Locations.java,
and we'll just add one
right on the bottom,
public
void close
you're gonna throw the IOException
and it's gonna be, simply, ra.close.
Closing the random access file
when the player quits the game.
Now, the reason that we're throwing
the IOException is that we're going
to let all the exceptions bubble up
to the operating system.
Meaning that the application's going
to exit and the exception will be
written to the console.
So, in other words, we're not going to be
doing any processing with any exceptions
we do get.
Alright, so next thing we need to add,
is a getLocation method.
And this is going to be used any time
the player moves to a new location.
And what I might do, is just put
that code back up here, towards the top.
And I'm going to delete this old static
initializer block code, because we don't
likely need that, we
obviously replaced that.
And, so let's use this location
for our getLocation method.
So we'll need to return a location object,
so we're gonna do public
location
getLocation.
Now, we're going to get the location ID
passed as an argument.
So, locationId, and we're also going to
throw an IOException,
and not deal with those
directly, in this method.
Alright, so firstly we need to get
the index record for this location,
so it's gonna be IndexRecord,
record is equal to
index.get
and it's gonna be the location ID
that passed as an argument to this method.
And next, we want to
start accessing the file,
the random access file, so it's gonna be
ra.seek,
record.getStartByte.
So, we're pointing to the correct offset
so that we've got access to this location
for the random access file.
Let's read the ID, int id is equal to
ra.readInt.
Then, we want to read the
description of the room
that's equal to ra.readUTF.
Exits is the next thing,
so we're gonna do String,
exits is equal to ra.readUTF, again,
'cause it's a string.
And then we want to
extract the various exits,
which if you remember are, actually, saved
with commas between them.
So, we'll create a
string array to do that.
String array, exitPart
is equal to new String,
(keyboard clacking)
and it's gonna be exits.split
and a comma so we're
actually getting all the
various exits for this particular location
and storing them in a
string array exit part.
Alright, next thing we need to do, now,
is create a new location.
It's gonna be Location,
location is equal to new Location,
we're going to pass the locationId,
the ID of the room, and
then also the description
and for the third argument, for the exits,
we're gonna pass that null, initially.
And the reason for that, if you go back
and have a look at our location class,
We can see that the constructor,
the third parameter, is exits,
and from previous videos in this course
we've worked on the location class
and you can see here we've gotta
test that if the the exits are passed
to the constructor, then we're creating
a new LinkedHashMap.
Otherwise, we're just creating a new,
empty HashMap, a LinkedHashMap,
and then we're actually adding,
in either case, a
default exit for quitting
which is for location ID zero.
So, in other words, we're using the
constructor, here, where we haven't yet
got the exits.
And that's because, so we're going to
create those and manually update them.
Alright, so, we're passing null,
as I mentioned, is the third argument.
So, it is still initialising the exits
in the location.
So, consequently, what we need to do now
is we need to send the exits.
So, we'll do a test here to make sure
we're not dealing with, locationId zero,
which is the one we've
set up to quit the game.
So, if locationId is not equal to zero,
then we're going to go through all the
exits that we find and add them,
one at a time, to the location.
So, for
int i equals zero,
i is less than exitPart, our array,
dot length, i plus plus,
and then for each one,
let's actually print out a message.
So, we'll start with exitPart is equal to
plus exitPart
i.
Then, we'll also do
exitPart,
plus one,
is equal to
plus exitPart, i plus one.
So, we're just printing out what we can
see in the array.
Let's, now, get the direction,
so that's gonna be String direction
is equal to exitPart
i,
so we're grabbing the,
just the actual direction
for the location.
And then the destination is equal to
Integer.parseInt,
and it's gonna be exitPart
and plus plus i, so we're
incrementing i first,
and then grabbing that element.
'cause if you recall, the exits, it is the
actual direction, and
then also the locationId,
where that direction goes to which room,
effectively, or which
location it leads to.
Alright, so we've now got our direction
and our our destination, we can add that
to the location.
So, location.addExit, and that's
gonna be direction, destination.
And then, all importantly, we need to
return the location that
we've actually built up
in this method.
So, that should now grab the location
from the random access file.
It builds up the,
obviously, the description
and the exits, creates a location object,
and then adds the various
exits to the location
and then returns that.
So, again, just going through this.
We're starting off here on line 87.
We're getting the
StartByte, so we're moving
the far pointer to the locations offset
by using the seek method, from our
random access file.
And as I mentioned previously,
even though we know the ID, we're actually
retrieving the locationId
because we stored
that when we wrote, and I mentioned that's
good practise to do that anyway, in case,
for some reason, that
you wanted to access it
without knowing the locationId.
We've got that information on file,
so it's really more or less a sanity test,
is what we're using that for.
So, we have to skip past that,
because we've recorded that, then move on
to the description on line 89.
And, by the way, in case you're wondering
how the readUTF method knows how many
bytes to read, because after all,
if you think about it,
it can't really know
how long the description is, by magic.
Well, the reason it knows is because
the writeUTF method, it actually writes
the link to the string, followed by
the string itself.
So, therefore, the readUTF method
reads the link first and then it reads the
appropriate number of bytes.
So, that's all happening
behind the scenes,
which is pretty cool.
Right, so after getting the description
on line 89, we're then
retrieving the exits.
And then we're extracting that into a
string array, which you saw on line 91,
and creating a new location object that
initially has no exits.
And then from lines 96 through 101
we're actually adding the
exits to the location.
And I added new string exits here,
I could have just, I
didn't have to do that,
I could have just changed that,
by the way, and just made that exits.
Either way will actually work,
then it's probably better to do it
that way to avoid any confusion.
Right, so at this point, now, we've got
a method, getLocation, that we can use
any time we move the player, or the player
moves to a different location.
So, what we now need to do is go
to the main class' Main method to get,
or to actually add the call to the
getLocation method, rather than getting
location information from map.
So, let's go back to the Main method.
Gonna have a look at our Main code, here.
So, basically before the while true
what we need to do is we're gonna
start off by creating the first location
so it's gonna be, we'll
actually get rid of this
commented out, int location equals one,
so after the loc equals 64, on line 29
we're going to add Location,
currentLocation
is equal to
locations.getLocation,
the method we just wrote, and we'll pass
loc to that, which is going to be the
location 64, which is our start.
And what we're going to do is, up here,
we're going to throw the exception
while I mention this we're going to
do that for our exceptions.
If you wanted to handle that, you could.
But, we're just going to
keep that simple, there.
Throw the exceptions from Main
to remove that error.
Right, so we've currently, we've got
our first location.
And we're still going
to leave this locations
getDescription, but we
just need to change it
marginally, and it's gonna be,
instead of Locations.get loc, we're gonna
change that to be
currentLocation.getDescription.
And, for the break, instead of checking
for the variable loc, and in actual fact,
what I'll do here is I'm
going to remove that.
We don't really need that anymore.
And I'm gonna change that to be 64,
which is our starting room.
And again that's, you might want to
code that as a constant, to, you know,
call it starting room or something
along those lines.
And we're gonna change this, instead of
loc equals zero, we're going, what if,
currentLocation.getLocationID
is equal to zero, then break.
So, we'll know, automatically, if we've
reached the room with
the location ID zero.
We know that we can, actually,
break out of this altogether.
And then this map here that, on line 38,
that currently is using
locations.get(loc).getExits,
well we can change that, again, to use
the current location that we've created.
So, it's gonna be
currentLocation.getExits.
And then down here on line 57,
you can see that we're
updating the loc variable,
well in actual fact what we wanna do here
is change that.
Instead of the loc variable being updated,
we actually wanna update
our currentLocation object.
So we top currentLocation, it equals,
and it's going to be
locations.getLocation,
and we're going to do
currentLocation.getExits,
then dot get(direction).
So, you can see there we're updating our
currentLocation, we're moving to
whatever direction was actually
selected by the user, and updating our
currentLocation, so consequently when the
while loop goes through again,
we can print out the
description of the new room
and we've got all these other tests here,
testing to see whether
that location's zero,
to break out, and also updating our exits
while using the
currentLocation.getExits method
on line 38.
And one last thing we need to do
is right after we've
actually exited the loop,
so, basically down here,
what we wanna do is
locations.close.
So, we wanna actually close that file
when the player's
actually exited the game.
Alright, so at this point, with the
various changes we've made, we should be
able to run the application and play it
exactly the same as we've done before.
Let's just try running it to see
that it'll actually work.
So, I'm running the Main method
from the Main class.
And we've got our print out, there,
just showing the various locations
just as a test.
And we've started off okay, so, we're at
a complex junction, let's just try moving.
(keyboard clacking)
And if we move down again,
Complex junction, if we just change this,
also, we'll quit out of that, just to
make sure that it is working.
And we'll go back and we'll change the ID.
We'll get location 64
with, which you may recall
from some videos ago, we changed it
so we got to a different part of the game,
change it to location one, which is
the starting location.
And let's just run that, to make sure
we are starting in the right place.
You're standing at the end of a road
before a small, brick building.
So that's good, so can go, say, west here.
You walked up a hill, still in the forest,
east, we're back to where we were before.
South,
north,
up,
down,
We can't walk down it again, we need to
move to another location due to the way
the game's been programmed.
East, we're back to where we were before.
Okay, then we quit out of it.
Alright, so you can see that we've
now modified our entire application,
here, and we're no longer reading
all the locations from memory.
So, we've now got the
basic shell of a game
that could potentially have thousands,
or perhaps even tens of thousands
of different locations and we haven't
got any problems with the amount of
memory we're consuming for that
because we're only
loading in the locations
one at a time, directly from our
random access file.
So, in other words,
they're loaded on demand.
So, at this point, you know, now,
how to use a random access file
to load data on demand.
Now we move the file pointer to the offset
and we want to read, and then we read it.
And as you learned, if we're reading
and writing data sequentially,
we don't have to explicitly move
the file pointer ourselves.
But in a random file access scenario,
of course, we'll need to do that.
So, that's all the coverage I have
for the java.IO package, but starting in
the next video, I'm gonna take a look
at the java.NIO package.
So, we're gonna talk about what
the java NIO is, and then we'll
actually get stuck into how to use it.
So, see you in the next video.